---
layout: blog-post
title: JBrowse2 tutorials
author: Jacqueline Campbell
date: 2025-05-16
summary: In October 2024, SoyBase transitioned to JBrowse2 to view genetic and genomic data. This post showcases a tutorial for JBrowse. 
---

### What is JBrowse and why the switch?
[JBrowse](https://genome.cshlp.org/content/19/9/1630.short) is an open-source and portable genome browser released in early 2009 and was specificly designed to make searching and viewing genetic and genomic data easier for the user. In 2023, the newest version of JBrowse ([JBrowse2](https://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-023-02914-z)) was released with significant improvements. At the same time of the JBrowse2 release, it became clear that the previous genome browser, GBrowse, was having difficultly reloading genome views with large data sets. In 2023, knowing that SoyBase was (1) going to gain access to even larger data sets and (2) the SoyBase team was going to embark on developing a new data and website layout - it was decieded to switch to JBrowse2. 

The GBrowse genome Browsers are still available on [legacy.soybase.org](https://legacy.soybase.org/), however, no new data will be added to GBrowse. 









All Glycine genomes within the datastore have a JBrowse instance and at least has the gene model prediction available for that particular genome. The reference genome Williams 82 have multiple tracks. 









List of all the tracks available on Williams 82 genome versions. 
<details>
Wm82.gnm6
- Genes 
- Markers

Wm82.gnm5
- Genes 
- Markers


Wm82.gnm4
- Genes 
- Markers
- Diversity
- Cell-type Accessible Chromatin Regions(ACRs)
- Cell-type ARCs motifs
- Single cell ATAC-seq
- Single-nucleus RNA-Seq
- Transcription


Wm82.gnm2
- Genes 
- Markers
- Diversity
- Synteny
- Gene Expression
- Histone Modification 
- Methylation


Wm82.gnm1
- Genes 
- Markers
- Diversity
</details>
